Title: Bye Bye Google: The End of a Great Summer
Date: 2008-11-16 12:15
Category: all
Tags: google
Slug: bye-bye-google-the-end-of-a-great-summer

Damn itâ€™s been over 8 weeks since I last wrote, and how Iâ€™ve missed
it. As you may have guessed Iâ€™ve been terribly busy since my last
post, especially in the most recent weeks. Since there is too much
information for a single post, Iâ€™ll split up the last 8 weeks into a
few segments starting with the end of summer.

I finished my Internship at Google and said goodbye to all the friends I
made there. On my last day I gave a presentation on my summer at Google
and what it was that I actually did. It went quite well, but prompted a
few last minute changes to my work, a few of which I was unable to
accomplish. I had my last Google meal at Lunch, my last Google iced
mocha around 3:00, quickly followed by my last drinking at Google.
Someone had purchased [Rockband 2][] that week, so we played that for a
bit, and then we decided to head to In and Out for my last meal with
Googlers. At In and Out I attempted to discover the name of a song that
I had stuck in my head. Steve was able to contribute a few lines to the
song, and Dan, after much convincing allowed us, with our slightly
greasy hamburger hands, permitted us to look up the song on his Iphone.
Dan had actually turned the ordeal into a bet, by saying we couldn't
find the name from a single query containing the fragmented phrases we
had. Well he was wrong, and we quickly discovered that the song was
[Jukebox Hero, by Foreigner][].

Later that evening I hung out with Julie and a few of her friends. We
watched a movie with a ton of action, I mean it couldn't get more manly.
It definitely was not [Step Up 2: The Streets][] ;) We later played a
game of [Kings Cup][] which I believe I lost. I must have shouted "Light
up the eyes boys!" a few times, as we put 3 Ninjas on in the background.
After the game and the movie I said my goodbyes and headed home.

Saturday afternoon I spent packing and cleaning which wasnâ€™t terribly
exciting. That evening I went up to Berkeley one last time to hang out
with Mira, Bung and Reina. I ended the summer the same way I started it,
by playing pool at a bar, crashing at Mira's, finally followed by
breakfast the next morning. Yet again I said my goodbyes, and headed
back to Los Altos Hills for the last time. From there it took me a few
hours to load up my things and hit the road for Santa Barbara thus
ending my summer.

The summer of â€˜08 was by far the best summer since the summer of â€™04
in which I went to Hawaii. I had the opportunity to meet a ton of new
people, and experience an internship like no other. Sadly, unless I work
for Google again, or another Googley company, I likely wont have any
other experience similar to it. That however, wont stop me from making
the most of whatever situation I find myself in.

Up next: Between Google and School

  [Rockband 2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rock_Band_2
  [Jukebox Hero, by Foreigner]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z5_qhnWByA4
  [Step Up 2: The Streets]: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1023481/
  [Kings Cup]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kings_(drinking_game)
