Title: Everything but Research
Date: 2008-11-18 01:57
Category: all
Tags: acm
Slug: everything-but-research

So much has happened this quarter that it's now difficult to recall specifics,
but knowing all too well that it only gets more difficult with time I'll try to
recall some of the more awesome events. Early in the quarter the computer
science department hosted an industry related event. One of the cool talks was
by Google's director of research, [Peter Norvig][]. The annual Computer Science
Fall Kickoff Barbeque followed the event in which Christo and I made it to the
final three of the water balloon toss. While this alone would be no spectacular
feat, we performed trick throws the entire time, with Christo throwing under
the leg, and myself performing the scorpion toss. Unfortunately one of
Christo's under the leg tosses came up short, and we were defeated.

That same night we celebrated Adam's birthday by Pub Golfing in downtown Santa
Barbara. Pub Golfing is an event where participants dress up as golfers and
score plus or minus strokes at a list of bars. Since we aren't too crazy, we
only did a 9 bar (hole) Pub Golf, which included penalties for PDA, water
hazards, or bars at which people, couldn't pee, and sand traps, or being caught
talking to a cougar. Bonuses were offered for drinking the hole specialty,
downing a drink in a single attempt, buying drinks for others and drinking more
than the 1 required drink per hole. No one was penalized for a water hazard,
but Adam did get trapped in the sand when a cougar pounced. Fortunately he
escaped from the cougar's paws before more penalties occurred. It was a
glorious night.

The weekend following the previous events I decided it was time to properly
network our apartment, so I took it upon myself to run wires between the rooms
through the attic, as well as between the first and second floor. Wiring
between the rooms was a piece of cake but getting between the first and second
floor was a bit trickier. I'll just say involved a coat hanger and some duct
tape. With our house fully connected we can now stream movies or TV shows from
any computer in the house down to our huge ass rear projection TV, which we got
for $100 from our old neighbor.

As one of three co-chairs for the [UCSB ACM club][], I have organized and ran
two events. The first was the [Annual UCSB Programming Competition][], which we
use as a qualifying round for the [Southern California Regional Competition][].
This year, sixteen students competed in the competition, which greatly
surpasses the turnout from years past. The top 9 willing participants went on
to compete in the regional competition in Riverside this past weekend. This
year was the first time in UCSB history that we were able to send three full
teams to the competition. I consider this a success the department, the club,
as well as for myself.

The second event I organized was an Install [Ubuntu][] event in which anyone
was welcome to drop in and install Ubuntu on their computer. In all, about ten
people successfully installed Ubuntu on their laptops, with zero failures or
data loss. I was impressed that the wireless adapters on all the laptops worked
immediately after installation, which has been a problem with Linux in the
past. One person had a problem with their computer randomly freezing after a
period of usage. We unfortunately could not alleviate this issue. Despite the
one problem, I feel this event was a huge success, and expect an even bigger
turnout next year.

Excluding what has really been taking up the majority of my life for the last
eight weeks this pretty much covers everything up until now. My next entry will
really focus on the adventures of a Ph.D. student.

  [Peter Norvig]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Norvig
  [UCSB ACM club]: http://www.acmucsb.com/
  [Annual UCSB Programming Competition]: http://cs.ucsb.edu/~bboe/acm/pc2008/
  [Southern California Regional Competition]: http://socalcontest.org/
  [Ubuntu]: http://www.ubuntu.com/
