Title: Getting Back on the Horse
Date: 2006-09-24 23:45
Category: all
Slug: getting-back-on-the-horse

It's been awhile since my last blog post, in fact it's been a few weeks since I
felt I've done something productive. Of course I make progress with tasks at
work, and make small changes to web sites I maintain, but nothing I've worked
on recently has brought me much excitement, and thus I'm ready for school to
start. With school I know there will be programming assignments, and as long as
they involve something new I will receive a sense of accomplishment.

Last week brought some excitement, however it wasn't that special kind of
excitement. Our house was searching for a used kegerator and last Sunday we
finally acquired one. To add to the excitement we mistakenly filled a 5 pound
CO<sub>2</sub> tank with 7 pounds. This caused the pressure relief valve to
blow in the cabin of Adam's car while he was driving. No one was hurt in the
process, and I couldn't stop laughing once I manged to get out of the oxygen
less car.

The pressure relief valve, if I'm identifying the part correctly, is a plug
that screws into the valve stem with a metal plate that covers a hole. When the
pressure becomes too great (3000 PSI on our model), the plate bursts releasing
CO<sub>2</sub> thus decreasing pressure, but also making the tank unusable
until the pressure release valve is replaced.

Thankfully the CO<sub>2</sub> place had a replacement valve, so we had it
repaired and filled, thus allowing us to have cold beer on tap Wednesday night.
The initial thrill of the kegerator meant consuming a good quantity of beer
each night until tonight which I decided to stay sober as there is no need to
drink tonight.

In addition to this I purchased a pretty sweet used road bicycle which
officially begins the *Bryce needs to exercise so he can afford to drink beer
and eat cookies* movement. I now realize why bicyclists older than 18 wear
helmets; these things are quite fast, and not nearly as maneuverable as a
mountain bike or any other bike I've ridden. Once I get a helmet, some gloves
and new tires, I am quite confident I'll be bicycling all over Santa Barbara,
and can eat all the cookies I want.
