Title: Google: Week 9
Date: 2008-08-27 00:07
Category: all
Tags: google
Slug: google-week-9

Damn! It's been 9 weeks so far. Well the fun has continued. Monday through
Thursday was pretty standard. I advanced my project more, which I realized I
haven't mentioned much about my project. Well if you're bored or interested in
what I actually do checkout [the work I've done][]. The number of results for
this search should continue to grow as more of my work is added to the project.
Other than the standard work, Monday I attended a [talk][] by Amos Guiora for
his book titled [Constitutional Limits on Coercive Interrogation][] which I
received a free copy. It's pretty thin and I don't get free books to often so
I'll probably read it.

Thursday night I went up to Mira's house in Berkeley along with Rashida,
Evanne, Victor, his friend Glen, Molly, Jessika (Bung) and Dan. We went out to
a Berkeley bar around 11 and I took off around 12:30 so that I would be rested
for work on Friday. It was great to spend some time with old college friends.
Ha! Old! My friends and I joke about how the ridiculous things we did during
the last four years are no longer humiliating. Our joking rebuttal is simply,
"guys -- that happened in college."

On Friday Rashida and Victor came to Google for lunch. That night I stayed in
the Peninsula area as many of my friends were attending the Radiohead concert
at Outside Lands. I ended up going out with Art and meeting up with Julie and
her friend (I'm terrible with names) at a Palo Alto bar Nolas. We headed to the
Rose and Crown and played some two-on-two cricket. Julie's friend and I won the
two games we played, though the second one was very close. I believe a rematch
is necessary.

Saturday, in San Francisco tourist fashion, I went on an Alcatraz tour with a
friend from high school, Mohammad. Prior to our tour we grabbed some lunch to
validate our parking giving us the opportunity to catch up. We haven't seen
each other since our first college spring break so it was a great time.
Alcatraz was pretty cool, but would have been much less so if there hadn't been
escape attempts. Following Alcatraz, Mo and I went to a Sushi place and then
just chilled at his apartment and watched [12 Monkeys][]. It was on the in
demand free movie list and though I had seen it before, Mo hadn't so it was the
obvious choice.

Sunday morning I headed up to Berkeley to help Bung move into the dorms. She
previously attended SBCC and decided to transfer to Berkeley. Compared to the
streamlined UCSB move in process that my mom and I experienced, Berkeley's was
ridiculous. We waited in line for approximately 30 minutes to get her room key
and then had to make two decent treks with a laundry cart full of stuff up
hilly paths from the car to Bung's dorm. It really wasn't that bad, as the
company was awesome, however I worked up quite a sweat.

I can only imagine what dorm life at Berkeley is like. I remember learning that
Berkeley dorms had coed bathrooms back when I was applying for colleges,
however I had since forgotten. When I rediscovered this visually I shared it
with Mira, which immediately after we decided it would be an awesome idea to
team pee, therefore we did. We discussed how having a coed bathroom would be
awesome in that it has high potential for shower hookups, but terrible for
those mornings, after a solid night of drinking, in which a violent eruption of
the bowels is imperative. Despite knowing that the bodily functions of men and
women do not differ, I still refuse to realize that a female could have a
post-drinking dump anywhere near as brutal as some that I've experienced.
Unfortunately Berkeley dorm students probably cannot avoid that realization for
very long.

Following lunch at the dinning commons I headed back to my summer place. After
having gone through my five audio discs few times I decided that I needed to
swap in my mp3 cd stereo from the Porsche. Despite [this consumerist article][]
and poor [yelp reviews][] I went to a local car audio store to purchase a
wiring harness and an antenna connection converter. According to the guy at the
stereo store, Verena's stock stereo "required" a special tool to remove, which
I asked if I could borrow one. He informed me that they didn't lend tools to
customers but that he would remove it for $5. Last time I checked most auto
stores allow their customers to borrow tools, and in some cases they will help
their customers out for free. I definitely was not going to pay $5 for a 10
second job with a $20 tool. Being creative I used a few hex keys to remove the
stereo; so much for a "required" tool. I crimped the wire harnesses together
and then packed everything neatly back in place. Everything worked beautifully
and I can now listen to ~30% more music before having to change a disc.

Spilling over into this week; Monday I made the decision to be a research
assistant rather than a teaching assistant fall quarter. There are a few paper
deadlines this quarter so it makes more sense to focus more on research than to
TA a class. Despite knowing I will have future opportunities to TA a class, I
am slightly disappointed that I won't be in the fall as I had been looking
forward to it.

Monday evening I headed to Art's house where his parents had made a Hawaiian
style barbeque. The food was delicious and after dinner Art and I watched For
Your Eyes Only. I have been a huge 007 fan since Goldeneye and so it's always
enjoyable to watch one I haven't seen in awhile.

Finally today I felt like I got a lot done at work after submitting my largest
and most useful change list. Additionally I played probably my best volleyball
of the summer making a considerable number of blocks, kills, and service aces.
I'm still quite lazy defensively though. This evening I attended a Stanford
Women's Volleyball scrimmage which was pretty exciting to watch. Julie came for
the last bit as she lives not too far away, so we chatted it up a bit. And that
brings me to a close. Have a great week!

  [the work I've done]: http://autotest.kernel.org/search?q=bboe
  [talk]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s-JoXL8iaNM
  [Constitutional Limits on Coercive Interrogation]: http://www.amazon.com/Constitutional-Limits-Coercive-Interrogation-Guiora/dp/0195340310
  [12 Monkeys]: http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0114746/
  [this consumerist article]: http://consumerist.com/tag/bad-install/?i=5020723&t=car-stereo-company-tries-to-install-gps-causes-1239854-damage-to-your-car
  [yelp reviews]: http://www.yelp.com/biz/the-car-stereo-company-los-altos#hrid:f3ia9ggynOqFhrRGuHaGSA/query:Car%20Stereo
