Title: Google: Week 8
Date: 2008-08-17 19:05
Category: all
Tags: google
Slug: google-week-8

Week 8 was easily the most eventful week of the summer thus far. Just
following last week's post I received an email to checkout a 1996 Vdub
GTI at 8 on Tuesday morning. I was very excited, but not thrilled to
wake up around 6:45 as my normal wakeup time is 8:30. Anyway I test
drove the car, and was quite taken by it. The 2003 Golf I previously
looked at had 103,000 miles with an asking price of $7000, whereas the
Green Machine had 90,000 miles with a $4000 asking price. I thought the
2003 had a better looking body style, but both felt great to drive so
Tuesday afternoon, after some volleyball, I made a $3700 offer via email
for the Green Machine. I later received a counter offer of $3800 which I
accepted.

Tuesday evening I was stoked that I would have a decent car with air
conditioning and five seats. My first car, a 1991 Nissan Pickup, had a 3
person bench seat, and the 944 has 4 seats, but the back seats are
basically a joke. I made arrangements to pick up the car on Thursday as
that was the soonest it could be arranged. My excitement carried into
Wednesday which I went in late to work following listening to
Christo's practice talk for a presentation he is giving Tomorrow
morning at the SIGCOMM workshop, [WOSN][], for our paper [Can Social
Networks Improve e-Commerce: a Study on Social Marketplaces][]. I was a
tad disappointed with myself as I have yet to be helpful when critiquing
a talk. My advisor went on for over five minutes pointing out problems
that I hadn't a clue about. Hopefully with practice and more confidence
I should have no problems developing that skill.

I left work early on Wednesday to go to an Oakland Athletics game, which
was the first baseball game I had been to since I went to a Padres game
shortly after Petco Park opened up, in the summer of 2004. I got a ride
up the Bart station with Molly's friend Julie. I love meeting new
people, especially when I get the opportunity to talk one on one with
them, so the drive and Bart ride were quite enjoyable. Upon arrival at
the park we met up with Molly and a few other Gaucho alums who I
didn't know terribly well. Nonetheless in UCSB Gaucho style we shot
gunned some beers and then headed into the game.

Then something crazy happened! While we were walking to our seats I saw
a familiar face, but one I hadn't seen in over three years. My high
school friend Brit who went to Berkeley happened to also be at the game.
We caught up a bit, exchanged numbers, made plans to hang out another
time and went our separate ways. It's just crazy the places you meet
up with old friends. Anyway Oakland lost the game to the Rays, but it
was $1 hotdog night so I was satisfied after having ate five. One of the
guys with us caught a foul bowl, so he was stoked, and then we all
headed home.

[![Verena from the Front][]][] [![Verena from the Back][]][]

Thursday morning I headed to the bank, pulled out some cash and went to
pickup my car that I had named Verena on Wednesday morning. I also refer
to her as the Green Machine. I chose Verena because it is a German
female name and because the Spanish for green is verde and thus one can
see the connection between verde and Verena. After picking up the car I
swung by the DMV but decided it wasn't worth waiting in lines after
spending five minutes to get through the parking lot, with no parking
success.

Not much else happened on Thursday though I have been continuing to make
solid progress on my project. Friday was an enjoyable work day as I made
more progress and attended a usability tour. The tour was of a Usability
Study Lab in which we do eye tracking studies of people's web browsing
behavior. It was really interesting to watch the replay of the
volunteer's eye movements as she completed the few tasks. I was
surprised to learn that we pay on average $75/hour for usability
participants. If you are interested in participating please let me know
and I can provide you with the details for signing up, though I can't
guarantee your selection.

As usual, on Friday there was a TGIF, which compared to the last one was
many times better. They started with a [segment][] from Wednesday's
CNBC Mad Money with our CEO Eric Schmidt as the guest, which I thought
was quite good. Naturally TGIF also had free beer and wine. Following
TGIF a few of us played Rockband and then headed home. Friday night I
went out out to say goodbye to Ann who was leaving for grad school in
Texas. We went to the Rose and Crown Pub in Palo Alto and it was
actually a ton of fun. They had an amazing beer selection including an
English Cider which was awesome. I played [Cricket][] with a fellow
Googler, David, and discussed the situation of print newspapers with
Ann's housemate [Shannon][] who is a journalist that has been affected
by the situation. Nikhil, another awesome Googler intern, was also there
and we all had a fun time.

Saturday I tested out the [Thule][] roof mounted rack system on my car
by affixing the bike carrier along with my bike to ensure it would work
properly, which it did. Additionally I tested the 6 disc CD changer in
Verena and after a few problems managed to get it working. I currently
have 5 discs in there, the first three are a set of Electro House
compilations, the fourth is a Classic Rock creation I made in high
school dubbed "Kick Ass Classic Rock" and the fifth is Radiohead's
OK Computer album. Finally I put on my UCSB Santa Barbara license plate
frame, which was given to me by [Cheri][] over four years ago. I then
spoke to Molly who asked if I was interested in seeing The Dark Knight,
which I absolutely was. I looked up show times at the San Francisco
Metreon and found one at 7:45, which I believed to be an IMAX showing,
though we later discovered that I was wrong.

I broke in my car on the fifty minute drive up to San Francisco by
listening to OK Computer. I noticed I drive slower in Verena than I did
in the Porsche. Despite Verena being German, she's still not a Porsche
thus her handling isn't quite as good as the 944 and therefore I
don't yet feel quite as safe at speeds over 70 mph. My average speed
in the Porsche was probably 80 mph, and I felt very safe at speeds up to
120 mph the few times I drove that fast. Another factor contributing to
the slower driving was that the 944 did just over 80 mph at 3000 rpm
whereas Verena only does 70 mph at 3000 rpm. I guess I'm less likely to
get a ticket now, though I think the Green Machine stands out a bit
more.

Anyway Molly informed me we'd have a 10 year old, Jenaya, for company
at the movie, so when I arrived the three of us took a little walk and
then rode the J to Market Street. I wasn't initially thrilled about
taking Jenaya, as I figured she was probably a bit young for the movie,
but it ended up being quite fun. I am fascinated by the way children
think and so long as they aren't shy they can be quite fun to talk to.
Molly and I told Jenaya that the movie would probably be a little scary
but she insisted that she was only scared of shark movies. Upon arriving
at the theater we discovered that our show time was not an IMAX showing,
which was a bit disappointing, nonetheless it didn't deter us from
watching. After the two plus hours of the movie I came to the conclusion
that The Dark Knight is probably the best movie I'd ever seen! The
production quality was incredible and different emotions were evoked
throughout which made for one of the greatest movie going experiences
ever. I am definitely getting a Blue Ray player and this on Blue Ray
when it comes out.

Finally after heading back to drop Jenaya off, Molly and I went to a
nearby bar and chatted about various things. I think this was the first
time I had hung out with Molly solo as we're usually with a few other
friends. Needless to say I enjoyed the the time we had. Following the
bar, we split a doughnut from a doughnut shop that was open at 1AM, and
after getting Molly back to her place I headed home.

Today I'm basically being lazy, though I am writing this and doing
laundry. I watched some Olympic female volleyball, and have already
watched three episodes of Star Trek. If I'm lucky maybe something will
come up for this evening, otherwise it's more Olympics and Star Trek.
Next Saturday a bunch of Santa Barbara people are coming up and I'm
finally going on an Alcatraz tour with a friend from High School,
Mohammad. Week 9 should be another exciting week!

  [WOSN]: http://conferences.sigcomm.org/sigcomm/2008/workshops/wosn/
  [Can Social Networks Improve e-Commerce: a Study on Social
  Marketplaces]: http://conferences.sigcomm.org/sigcomm/2008/workshops/wosn/papers/p1.pdf
  [Verena from the Front]: /images/2008/08/img_3649-300x225.jpg
    "Verena from the Front"
  [![Verena from the Front][]]: /images/2008/08/img_3649.jpg
  [Verena from the Back]: /images/2008/08/img_3651-300x225.jpg
    "Verena from the Back"
  [![Verena from the Back][]]: /images/2008/08/img_3651.jpg
  [segment]: http://www.cnbc.com/id/26182232
  [Cricket]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cricket_(darts)
  [Shannon]: http://shannonebarry.blogspot.com/
  [Thule]: http://www.thuleracks.com/
  [Cheri]: http://blogthismom.blogspot.com/
