Title: Google: Week 6 - Woah-oh We're Half Way There!
Date: 2008-08-05 23:42
Category: all
Tags: google
Slug: google-week-6-â€“-woah-oh-were-half-way-there

Damn I'm late again! I never make my personal Sunday midnight deadline. If it's
any consolation I wrote most of this Sunday night, started editing Monday
night, and finally finished it just now.

Yes the end of week 6 signifies that my summer internship is half way complete,
thus meaning I have another six awesome weeks at Google. Before I tell about my
epic tales which were last week I need to add that in week 4 I attended a
Google talk with Henry Kissinger. It seems the video of the event will at some
point be posted [here][], but it currently is not. While I don't remember the
specific details of the chat at this point, I'm glad I attended.

Last week was probably one of my best weeks at Google after the Google effect
subsided, and from this point on they should all be awesome. Tuesday I played
doubles volleyball for lunch, and I was quite surprised that I now have enough
endurance to play four consecutive games. Tuesday evening I saw WALL-E with
Ann. The movie was awesome but I have one issue I have to get off my chest:

**\_\_Spoiler Alert\_\_:** Skip this paragraph if you haven't seen the movie. I
realize it's a kids movie but nonetheless I still have one issue. The circuit
board that was replaced in WALL-E at the end seemingly replaced his memory,
thus one could conclude that his memory was contained on the swapped board. I
draw this conclusion because of how the previously recorded audio didn't play
when EVE hit the play button on WALL-E. Yet through some *magic* WALL-E was
able to regain all past knowledge. Most people watching the movie are probably
accepting of this, but I am not, so I came up with an acceptable solution.
Assume WALL-E's memory is stored elsewhere, and is not part of the swapped
board. Additionally assume the board is essentially a cache for the larger
memory. Thus when replaced WALL-E had to go through a period of time to rebuild
the cache before the main memory can be accessed. One could also think of this
not as a cache but rather an index to the items stored in the main memory.
Regardless this brings up questions of poor design on the WALL-E creators
behalf, such as why they would design him to function without full memory
operation. Experience has shown me that designers do dumb things, so this
question is better off left unpondered. Other than that, I don't recall having
any issues with the movie.

Wednesday evening I played board games with some Googlers, each of which were
games I had never played before. We started out playing [Burn Rate][] followed
by a game of [Nuclear War][]. I then played [Pandemic][] which is unique
because all the players work together to fight off outbreaks of disease;
everyone wins or everyone loses. We unfortunately lost. Finally we ended the
night with a three hour game of [PowerGrid][] which was awesome. I ended up
taking second place in the game. I made the mistake of thinking I had it won on
my last turn, thus neglecting to deprive the eventual winner from their game
winning power plant card. Oh well.

Thursday I again played doubles volleyball, and then had my midterm review,
which went well. I actually hoped for more criticism about my performance, but
I did not receive any. Later that day I finally met with the [Autotest][] team
which I have been working with via IRC. We soon discovered we had a thing for
drinking in common and thus we made a trip to BevMo to pick up much booze,
which we followed by drinking and playing [Rock Band][] well into the evening.

The annual Google picnic was held on Friday in which there was lots more booze,
and a cart building / racing competition. I organized a team of Platforms
Interns which we dubbed "The Platties". We had one hour to build a working push
cart out of some 2x4s and plywood. I spent the majority of the time working on
the front pivoting wheel, which ended up being the only part that survived
after the back axles broke. Following that some of us headed back to our
building to drink more and play Rock Band until we sobered up.

Saturday I participated in a beer pong tournament hosted by members of the
Google AdWords team. Entry fees, less beer and pizza, were donated to the
[Northern California Youth Leadership Seminar][]. My teammate Steve and I won
our first round, however we lost in the second. After experiencing defeat we
took on a new challenge thus starting the first of many epic rounds of flip
cup. Following the tournament we headed back to Steve's place and played Rock
Band. Later we went to this Italian place with awesome Focaccia sandwiches, and
at this point decided to see [Kevin Nealon][] at a comedy club just down the
street. That was my first comedy show and it was quite awesome, though I was
extremely tired and considerably drunk at this point.

Fortunately my second wind kicked in as we were leaving. We headed to a bar for
some pool and foosball and later met up with my friend Molly and Yaz who
eventually came back to Steve's for some late night Rock Band action, minus the
drums. After seeing Molly and Yaz to a cab I headed back to play Jeopardy with
Steve's roommates, which involved watching recorded episodes and keeping points
for correctly shouted out answers.

Sunday morning I had an adventure catching a bus to the San Francisco Caltrain
station, but it was quite enjoyable as walking around San Francisco is
pleasant. Finally Sunday afternoon I went to the [Winchester Mystery House][]
with Ann taking the two guided tours offered. Besides the crazy architecture of
the house, it was remarkable how the heating system and gas lighting system
worked. I'm sure not many people had these amenities in the early 1900s,
nonetheless it was an ingenious system that allowed for automatic gas lighting
of rooms without worrying about gas leaks.

Well that's all for last week. As one can see the common theme for last week
was Rock Band. I had played once last Thanksgiving and wasn't very intrigued by
it, but that definitely changed last week. Anyway, I think Adam, Scott, and I
will be purchasing it when we get back to Santa Barbara - woo!

  [here]: http://www.youtube.com/atgoogletalks
  [Burn Rate]: http://www.cool-studio.net/
  [Nuclear War]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nuclear_War_(card_game)
  [Pandemic]: http://www.zmangames.com/boardgames/pandemic.htm
  [PowerGrid]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Power_Grid_(board_game)
  [Autotest]: http://test.kernel.org/autotest
  [Rock Band]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rock_Band_(video_game)
  [Northern California Youth Leadership Seminar]: http://www.californialeaders.org/index.html
  [Kevin Nealon]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kevin_Nealon
  [Winchester Mystery House]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Winchester_Mystery_House
