Title: Google Week 12: One More!
Date: 2008-09-16 00:55
Category: all
Tags: google, mac
Slug: google-week-12-one-more

My last week at Google is finally here. It seems like just yesterday I was
driving up to the Bay Area in the Porsche loaded to the roof with my stuff. Oh
it's been a great summer, but it's not over yet!

Week 12 gave me the opportunity to complete more of my project and even expand
outward a bit. Friday I added a much needed feature to Autotest which simply
was an email notification when an Autotest job completes. Nothing too exciting
but it was the change I needed to finish the week strong as my project has
really started to dull out. Last Monday we had a dodgeball match which we
unfortunately lost. Tuesday I played a grueling match of volleyball followed by
a game of dodgeball in which we dominated. I have developed what I believe to
be a case of tennis elbow, which must be synonymous with volleyball and
dodgeball elbow. Anyway we knew we couldn't advance out of pool play with our
best case 2-2 record, so I decided to change up my strategy to avoid irritating
my elbow. I stood in the back basically acting as a target and feeding others
the balls. I did throw four times of which I managed to make three kills, so
that felt good. I also pulled off two or three catches, thus ending my
dodgeball career at Google.

Thursday I again played volleyball at lunch and very strongly believe that
[Keri Walsh][] watched me play, or at least that's what I'm telling people. The
four of us who were playing believe we saw Keri Walsh (or her double) walk by
the Google beach volleyball court. Despite the lack of eye contact we deduced
that at one point she must have glanced over, or at least peripherally noticed
us playing while laughing to herself about how much she would dominate us.
Keri, please come back and dominate us!

Friday, as I mentioned earlier, kept me occupied with my Autotest frontend
patch. Additionally around 2PM, a man we'll call "scottz" came into the office
and asked if anyone was up for whiskey. Well, duh! So him and I both had a dry
finger of [Knob Creek][]. I don't sip dry whiskey very well so I ended up
shooting it, then moved on to a [Pilsner][]. Despite the light boozing, my
production went way up as I pounded out the rest of the patch. Around 5:30 a
little bit of Rock Band took place and at 6:30 Steve and I met up with Molly
and Julie at Stanford for the UCSB Stanford Women's volleyball match. Julie,
Molly and I were decked out in our UCSB gear, and all were hoping for a UCSB
upset against the #2 ranked Stanford girls, however it unfortunately did not
happen. Nonetheless we represented our school by starting the Gaucho cheer:
"OLE!, OLE! OLE! OLE!, GUACHOS!, GAUCHOS! (repeat)" Following the game the four
of us went to Pizza My Heart and then the Rose and Crown for some darts. I
still remain undefeated at darts this summer :)

Saturday morning I talked with Ben who asked about returning the laptop he
leant me. Being as awesome as he is, he suggested I pickup a Macbook which he'd
reimburse me for. I wasn't going to argue with that! So that morning in the
free time I had before my BBQ I picked up a Macbook and first generation Ipod
Touch. The Ipod Touch was free pending a mail in rebate thus, Saturday just
started off awesome. When I returned from my Apple store adventure I played
with the Macbook until people started arriving for the BBQ, which ended up
being quite awesome. For nostalgic purposes these people showed up, in order of
appearance: Alison, Evanne, Mira, Bung, Molly, Julie, Steve, Dan, Victor, Glen,
Jeremy, Jermey's gf (sorry forgot name), Kristen, and Adam. I'll sure feel like
an ass if I forgot someone... Anyway throughout the BBQ Steve and I did
backflips into the 5' deep pool. Steve + Dan beat me + Bung in a chicken fight,
and the rest basically involved hanging out, chatting and enjoying the food
cooked by Al, who I'm renting the room from.

Sunday was another one of those hang out and chill days. I made a quick trip to
Frys to pick up 4GB of RAM for lappy2.0. After installing I played around with
the Macbook a bit and got caught up on Entourage, Prison Break, Weeds, The
Sarah Connor Chronicles, and Dexter. Today Adam and Kristen came to Google for
lunch. I sold the Ipod Touch to a follow Googler for $180, which when the time
comes I'll put this money toward an [Android][] based phone, or maybe a 120GB
Ipod classic. Additionally today I fixed up quite a few things, added a few
features and was assigned a bug for Autotest. I feel kind of weird working on
Autotest when that's not specifically my project, but I think Google would
prefer I be some manor of productive rather than twiddling my thumbs waiting
for the next thing to do. Have I mentioned that I don't work well when I don't
have much to do?

So this is my last week. It's going to be sad to leave this all behind, but I
am eager to officially start my Ph.D.. Other than Wednesday WTF (assuming I
write one), the next time you read from me, it'll be written from Santa
Barbara. Adios from the Hills!

  [Keri Walsh]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keri_walsh
  [Knob Creek]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knob_Creek_(bourbon)
  [Pilsner]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pilsner
  [Android]: http://code.google.com/android/
