Title: I am a Noogler
Date: 2008-06-24 20:50
Category: all
Tags: google
Slug: i-am-a-noogler

Let me first start out by saying Google is AWESOME! I've always thought working
for Google would be pretty sweet, but let me just say, that all the positive
things people say about working for Google do not do it justice.

Anyway at Google they call their employees googlers and new googlers are called
nooglers, so thus I am a noogler. For the intern nooglers their day starts at
10AM in which they setup their computer account, get their badge picture and
then receive a brief tour of the campus's main buildings. Following the tour we
did the standard intern orientation, which included filling out necessary paper
work, a fun exercise, and lunch.

Breakfast, lunch, dinner, snacks, coffee, naked juices, and almost anything
imaginable are all available free to googlers as well as their guests. There is
no badge swiping process so people are free to eat all day long, should they
choose. This allows for what is known as the Google 15, which is similar to
college's freshmen 15; I better start making use of their exercise facilities.
By the way, their cafes can be thought of as **gourmet** college dining
commons.

Following orientation the engineers broke off from the business interns and
were given a presentation on being an engineer at Google. It was really quite
amazing though I can't go into details. It's quite surprising how open and
trusting Google is with its nooglers. Another cool thing was one of the places
near this lecture room was called the Hub which served free Starbucks style
coffee, complete with baristas.

At the end of the lecture we were able to pick three free computer programing
books, and then were directed to our working areas by our mentor/advisor/boss.
I was surprised when I saw a 30 inch monitor sitting at my desk waiting for me
along with my 4 core computer named Sybok. To end the day I took a few pictures
and grabbed a light dinner; my grocery bill will be pretty cheap this summer :)

Tomorrow the noogler interns are going to Great America, which I haven't been
to since Space Camp. On Friday there is a TGIF (Thank God it's Friday) meeting
in which Sergey and Larry (Google's founders) will speak and the nooglers will
have to wear cool Google hats with spinners on top. Oh and there is free wine
and beer. I love Google.

A few other things that are awesome. In the middle of the main buildings is the
most awesome sand volleyball court I've ever seen; the only thing missing is an
ocean view. Additionally there are two endless lap swimming pools, complete
with a lifeguard. All nooglers receive a coupon for a free one hour massage
which I will be scheduling in the near future. Subsequent massages are
reasonably priced for the hour. The list of awesome things can go on and on,
but perhaps I'll save some of them for another day. -Noogler out
