Title: Mother's Day
Date: 2013-05-12 00:00
Category: all
Tags: family
Slug: mothers-day

Many people in the US show appreciation for their mother on the second
Sunday of May. While Mother's Day may be more commercial, and directed
differently than originally intended [[ref][]], I will use the day to
thank two women, both mothers, who have made and continue to make a
significant impact on my life.

First and foremost is my own mother. She brought me into this world,
helped raise me (along with my other brothers) and did her best with
what she had (sometimes with more than what she had) in order to give me
what I required to succeed at a young age. Sadly, recalling concretely
how my mother has impacted my life is rather difficult as I am not aware
of all the decisions she made on my behalf while I was unable to
comprehend them. I do recall, however, after my parents divorce when
money was no longer in abundance, a handful of situations where my
mother made financial compromises in order to provide me with the
essentials for the sports I played, the classes I took, or the other
activities I participated in. Most notably she gave in to my request
(possibly demand) for broadband Internet thus allowing me learn and
explore new facets of technology at a pace that kept me glued to the
computer. My mother, whether intentionally or not, gave me many freedoms
to do what I desired. This freedom significantly contributed to my
independence, which I strongly feel has helped me throughout my adult
life. My mother has helped shape me as a person and as such I am
incredibly grateful for her impact on my life.

By high school I was a fairly independent person. Due to having access
to a car that I paid for, in combination with having two homes not more
than ten miles apart, I effectively removed any method of discipline my
parents wanted to enforce. While I was occasionally disrespectful to my
parents at this time, that disrespect was never directed toward anyone
else. When I started dating my high school girlfriend, I was quickly
welcomed into her family. As such, Cheri, my high school girlfriend's
mother, became like a second mother to me at a time when I most needed
it. There are numerous times that Cheri (and Tom, but this is Mother's
Day) encouraged, supported and pushed me to accomplish something. Most
notably, Cheri ensured I completed what was necessary to apply for
college, when the thought never significantly occurred to me. I
distinctly remember sitting in their office on the day of the (extended)
UC application deadline being pushed to finish my personal statement,
and going through a number of revisions with her. The support I received
from Cheri that day may very well have had the single largest impact on
my future, and for that I am eternally grateful to Cheri, my second
mother.

Both these women, have played a crucial rule in my life. My mother
playing a significant part in shaping who I am, and Cheri in pushing me
to a brighter future. I would not be where I am today without the
numerous things that these women have done for me. Thank you both for
everything you have done. I love you both. Happy Mother's day.

  [ref]: http://www.babble.com/mom/relationships/anna-jarvis-mothers-day-history-gifts-enough-thank-you/
