Title: Pre-Summer Recap
Date: 2009-08-17 23:58
Category: all
Tags: teaching
Slug: pre-summer-recap

Wow, where has the time gone? In my absence a great deal has happened in
my life so I'm going to break it up into a few chunks starting with
stuff prior to the summer.

As I briefly mentioned in [Flat Stanley's Adventures][], winter quarter
I TAed the Compilers course for [Tim Sherwood][], one of my favorite
Professors. As a TA I was primarily responsible for the course projects.
I decided to write [automatic grading utilities][], which despite the
occasional bug were quite beneficial to the students as they received
immediate feedback when submitting their project. Additionally they were
able to submit projects multiple times, thus allowing them to fix
problems they might have overlooked. As my end of quarter reviews were
pretty good, I was selected as one of four Outstanding TAs for the
quarter in our department.

In addition to TAing winter quarter, I took two courses. One was a
security related course on malware and reverse engineering lead by my
soon to be adviser [Chris Kruegel][]. The projects in the course had us
write a simple Windows root kit, a ELF virus, a crack and a keygen for
contrived programs, among a few others.

The second course I took was taught by [Klaus Schauser][] and was on
scalable web services. Klaus previously was a Computer Science professor
at UCSB however, he left to found [Expert City][] which later was bought
by [Citrix][] thus becoming [Citrix Online][]. He now is the Chief
Strategist for [Appfolio][] a Santa Barbara company that provides an
online solution to Property Management. This particular course
interested me as it is seldom offered and web related topics fascinate
me. A group consisting of myself, [Adam][], Jeff, [Jon][], Krithika, and
Shashank created the website torrentphobe which was a torrent tracking
service that utilized social networks. It worked wonderfully, however
after the course ended, and the money for the servers was no more, we
decided to shutdown our service.

During winter quarter I applied for summer internships. Naturally I
reapplied with Google, applied to Microsoft and a few other companies,
however I never would have thought of applying to AppFolio if I hadn't
taken Klaus's scalable web services class. I had little knowledge of
AppFolio prior to interviewing, however I wanted to interview simply to
catch a glimpse of a pair programming company in addition to gaining
interview experience. The interview went quite well, and to my surprise
I was given an offer equivalent to that which Google would offer. After
careful consideration and discussion about finding an appropriately
challenging project, I was sold, and accepted before Google even got
back to me on my application. I must quickly say that I'm over halfway
through my internship and Appfolio is a fantastic company to work for. I
only have a few weeks left; it will be sad to leave.

Spring quarter I took a single course, Advanced Computer Architecture
with the same Tim Sherwood I TAed for. On a quick side note Tim is the
Professor that held the Programming Battle Adam and I won in the spring
quarter of our freshmen year in addition to taking us to Riverside for
the ACM Programming Competition the following four falls. Thus I knew
this class would be amazing even if the material weren't the most
enticing. The papers were definitely dense but I learned some damn cool
stuff. Therefore I'm glad I took the class.

My main focus spring quarter was with my TA responsibilities for the
Operating Systems course. I again gained a great deal of valuable
experience, however grading for these projects was not as
straightforward as the grading the previous quarter. The projects had
very little area between doesn't work at all, and works perfectly. Thus
in attempt to accurately grade the students' understanding of material
the projects were designed to convey, I had the groups demo their
projects. I think it worked out quite well, however as one student
pointed out in their written review it, the demoing process is not a
perfect method. They wrote, "[P]lease grade more harshly. People who
BS'd the assignments got the same grade as people who did them right."
Nonetheless whomever they were comparing against must have done a good
job at BSing.

Toward the end of the quarter notification came out that the graduating
seniors elected me as the Computer Science Outstanding TA of the year.
That quickly became a topic of toast when I was out with friends at a
bar. I recall a few times Adam or Scott would introduce me as Bryce, the
TA of the year. I attempted to not let it go to my head; sometimes I
succeeded and others I failed. Such is life.

On the Scotty and Adam topic I attended their Master's graduation
ceremony, which was oh so boring. However, as with our undergraduate
graduation, this one naturally came the mimosas in the morning and much
other celebration so it was worth the hours in the sun. As all good
things must come to an end, the celebrations didn't last too much
longer. A few days later we all moved out of our place on Sesame Tree. I
moved down the road to Storke Ranch, and Adam and Scott temporarily
moved home to Sacramento prior to their big move to Washington to work
for Microsoft. The move marked the end of an era: the end of the Three
Musketeers. However, the move also marked the start of a new life for
me, which has been great so far. Nonetheless Scotty and Adam are missed.

  [Flat Stanley's Adventures]: /2009/03/03/flat-stanley%E2%80%99s-not-so-adventures-at-ucsb/
  [Tim Sherwood]: http://cs.ucsb.edu/~sherwood/
  [automatic grading utilities]: http://cs.ucsb.edu/~bboe/static/projects
  [Chris Kruegel]: http://cs.ucsb.edu/~chris/
  [Klaus Schauser]: http://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~schauser/
  [Expert City]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Citrix_Online
  [Citrix]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Citrix_Systems,_Inc.
  [Citrix Online]: http://www.citrixonline.com/
  [Appfolio]: http://www.appfolio.com
  [Adam]: http://adamdoupe.com/
  [Jon]: http://www.regexprn.com/
