Title: Teaching My First Lecture
Date: 2009-05-05 22:02
Category: all
Tags: teaching
Slug: teaching-my-first-lecture

I previously [mentioned][] that I was the Teaching Assistant (TA) for
the Operating Systems class this quarter. It's going quite well, though
just as I remember, this class is a lot of work for the students, and a
hell of a lot of work for the TA. I recently finished grading the third
project in the class, and am now continuing my preparation for
tomorrow's lecture.

Tomorrow's lecture is super exciting for me because not only do I get to
lead it, it is my first time talking to a mostly full class for an hour
and fifteen minutes. I teach discussion sections each week, however
these differ in that roughly only half the class shows up, and
additionally I don't have to prepare much material since discussion
sections go in the direction that the students desire. Tomorrow,
however, this is not the case. I was given lecture slides from which it
is my responsibility to impart knowledge onto the students about a
specific topic, and that is exactly what I intend on doing.

I've read the relevant sections in the book from which the slides were
prepared and I have even thought up some questions students might ask.
To top it off, I've even planned some stupid jokes, such has how I am
planning to say, "[It's a trap!][]" when the kernel traps due to an
invalid memory access. I don't want to give away too many of my tricks,
but hopefully you get the impression that I'm excited and ready for
tomorrow's lecture.

Am I nervous? Absolutely not. I was nervous to prior to teaching my
first few discussion sections last quarter, however talking in front of
Computer Science students has simply become part of what I do. I'd
probably be nervous if I had to instruct a class for a different
department, but I'm always nervous the first time I do something new.

To end this I want to write that I've finally updated my CV on my
Computer Science home page. If you're interested in what academic and
professional things I've been up to [check it out][].

  [mentioned]: /2009/03/11/how-do-i-end-it/
  [It's a trap!]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dddAi8FF3F4
  [check it out]: http://cs.ucsb.edu/~bboe/static/cv
