Title: Teacher Training in Computer Science: What's That?
Date: 2009-11-09 00:36
Category: all
Tags: teaching
Slug: teacher-training-in-computer-science-whats-that

Last year I was a teaching assistant for two quarters giving me two
opportunities to see how well I could share my knowledge with students. Aside
from my knowledge of the material, and my ability to relate to many of the
undergrads at UCSB (having previously been one myself) I had almost no
preparation of how to be a TA. Our CS department requires that all TAs do three
things: attend a department TA orientation, attend the campus TA orientation,
and take a seminar specifically for training TAs in the CS department.

Both orientations occur the week before school starts, and cover topics such as
what UCSB students are like, sexual harassment, time management, and whom to
contact in the event of <blank>. Our department's required TA training seminar
takes place in fall quarter, thus not prior to when TAs might have to teach,
and was strictly presentation based. In none of these three requirements was
there any discussion of [pedagogy][], the study of being a teacher.

I went into my first discussion section with no idea on how to lead an
effective discussion section, other than what I personally saw in my
undergraduate Computer Science discussion sections, most of which I did not
attend. Those that I had attended were not discussion sections, but rather
mini-lectures with a question and answer session, thus this was the model I
followed. Rather than trying to help students make real world connections with
what they were learning, I simply presented material and answered questions
they had about assigned projects.

Despite how I now believe I could had a much bigger impact, I was given
Outstanding Teaching Assistant awards both quarters I TAed based on my end of
quarter reviews by the students, and professor recommendations. I am not
attempting to brag here, but rather show that my instruction as a TA is
representative of our department's best TA instruction and that's sad. It can
be so much better.

Undergraduates coming to UCSB for Computer Science, benefit from being taught
by some of the brightest minds in the country. However, if you think these
professors are much different when it comes to pedagogy than our TAs, you are
sadly mistaken. Our professors are not hired based on their teaching ability,
but rather their ability to bring in research money through grants.

I've confirmed this through discussion with faculty involved in the hiring of
new faculty. I asked one of our faculty members, "Suppose two candidates were
identical in research experience, but one had more teaching experience. Would
that give the candidate an edge?" The response I received was that no two
candidates are ever identical in research experience, and that any teaching
experience is completely neglected.

In my opinion this is unacceptable. At UCSB undergraduates are paying more than
they should to receive a college education. At the very least they should be
taught by professors who not only know what they're teaching, but know how to
teach it as effectively as possible. Teaching shouldn't be a requirement, as
many faculty members see it, but rather an opportunity to share knowledge.

Before I conclude, I want to mention that we have some incredible faculty in
UCSB's Computer Science department, many of who are not only excellent
researchers, but also excellent instructors. Of those I've discussed this with,
none of them had any formal teacher training, therefore are solely relying on
past experience and observer feedback. Those that are excellent instructors
have done incredibly well, but they could do so much better. As can I.

  [pedagogy]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pedagogy
