Title: UCSB 'Bender' Takes Fifth
Date: 2006-11-15 00:03
Category: all
Slug: ucsb-bender-takes-fifth

Saturday November 11, five students from UCSB drove into Riverside,
three of which emerged (somewhat) [victorious][] and each $50 richer.
This entry chronicles the events leading to and during the [2006
Southern California Regional ACM programming competition][].

![ACM $50 Check][]

I mentioned the upcoming competition in my [Line Segment Intersection
Algorithm][] post which was the start of my preparation for the contest.
Further preparation did not come until two nights before the competition
as we are lazy Santa Barbarians. Adam and I managed to talk Scottie into
participating with us thus giving us the *house* advantage as we all
live together. We originally registered four teams however only five
people attended giving us two teams, Bender and Morbo named
appropriately after [Futurama][] characters.

**The Night Before**  
In a traditional UCSB Friday night Scott and Adam partied though
managed to make it home well before the normal return time; I abstained
Friday night because I like to be well rested before day long events.

**The Next Morning**  
In a *nontraditional* UCSB morning the three of us woke up at
approximately 6:45 to leave by 7:45 for the 2.5 hour drive to Riverside.
One thing that must be noted here is that the official check in was
between 8 and 9 which we definitely weren't planning to attend.

Showers and a quick trip to McDonald's prepared us for the day and put
us on the road by 8:00. We sang songs for two and half hours and finally
arrived at 10:30. Surprisingly our other team with our coach arrived
within two minutes of us despite our unsynchronized departures. The six
of us rolled in and tried to find the check in booth but of course being
late the booth was gone and special accommodations were needed to get
checked in. With all that squared away Scotty, Adam and I completed the
practice problem in 15 minutes and headed out for lunch. Oddly, to us,
we were one of the first teams there for lunch despite the other teams'
head start at the practice problem.

**Lunch**  
Lunch was exciting. Rather than planning strategy and preparing our
minds for the upcoming five hours of work we joked with Tim (our coach)
about future years' strategies. We came up with one brilliant plan,
among other not so brilliant ones.

The plan involves a team of strippers, or rather a team of some of
UCSB's finest since the majority of our female class would make
excellent strippers. Throughout the competition these girls will cat
fight and perform titillating dances so as to distract other teams. They
may even go so far as to flirt with the competition. We being used to
this, as it occurs all the time in our natural environment at UCSB, will
gain an upper hand and emerge victorious.

**The Competition**  
The competition started a half hour late due to technical difficulties.
The words starting the competition were, "You now have five hours,"
which me immediately joked as five hours to figure out how to open the
packet, and the woman guarding the printer from code thieves chuckled.
Once the packet was opened we took our places with Adam at the keys and
Scottie and I yielding pen and paper. After reading through the packet
of seven problems I began solving the fifth problem which was a nested
box problem. This problem involved figuring out the maximum number of
boxes that can be nested in a given set of boxes. I quickly recognized
this as a dynamic programming problem and hacked away at the code for
it. I passed it off to Adam who had just completed our programming
environment setup. He typed it up, tested it and submit it for a success
on first submission.

Meanwhile Scottie began working on the third problem which involved
calculating how to order pages when printing a booklet, and in the down
time Adam began solving the second problem which was determining the
best percentage one could get in a class by dropping one, two or three
grades.

After the fifth problem was solved I began working on the first problem
as it didn't involve designing an algorithm, but rather just making
simple math calculations with a very complicated problem description. We
typed this problem up, submit it, and went for a break which occurred 2
hours into the competition.

Upon our return we were all cheers as the solution to the first problem
was correct. Scottie continued working on the third problem as he was
floating around a correct solution, and Adam was close to completing the
second problem. That left problem four, six, and seven for me to look
at. I chose the fourth problem which was a special program this year
that involved interaction with another program.

The fourth problem titled Uniclue was a simplified version of the game
Clue, in which we only had to come to the correct accusation in under 47
turns. There are only 18 cards in clue which need to be accounted for
before making an accusation thus making the problem quite simple. I
wrote the pseudo code for this, and handed it off to Adam, who by this
time had programmed a solution for the second problem.

My code had a few mistakes but with some solid debugging skills we were
able to quickly fix the mistakes and submit for a correct answer. With
less than an hour left and one problem just about correct we decided to
assist Scottie in finding the correct answer for the third problem.

It turns out we had interpreted part of the problem wrong and were
trying to correct something that didn't need to be corrected. Upon
realizing that we knew our initial solution was wrong for some number
1-200 and started checking each of those (something we should have done
initially). As a shot in the face the problem occurred when '1' was
entered. A one line fix gave us the correct solution and rights to pick
on Scottie for a few months.

Getting the correct answer on this problem had jumped us up to fourth
place from sixteenth or so, and with only fifteen minutes left in the
competition we rolled out, feeling victorious and singing "Olay, Olay
Olay Olay! Gauchos! Gauchos!"

We now had to wait approximately an hour to see how far we were bumped
down. Finally it is announced, "Fifth place goes to UCSB Bender."
Maholler!

![ACM 5th Place Certificate][]

As it turns out we do alright without a team of strippers, but it's
still a brilliant plan.

[Detailed Results][]  
[Problem Set][]

  [victorious]: http://icpc.baylor.edu/icpc/regionals/ViewRegionalStandings.asp?ContestID=767
  [2006 Southern California Regional ACM programming competition]: http://www.socalcontest.org/
  [ACM $50 Check]: /images/2006/11/2006-acmcheck.jpg
  [Line Segment Intersection Algorithm]: /2006/10/23/line-segment-intersection-algorithm/
  [Futurama]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Futurama
  [ACM 5th Place Certificate]: /images/2006/11/2006-acmfifthplace.jpg
  [Detailed Results]: http://www.socalcontest.org/champs/details-2006.html
  [Problem Set]: http://www.socalcontest.org/prev_probs/2006.zip
