Title: Wednesday WTF \#6
Date: 2008-08-06 23:29
Category: all
Tags: Wednesday WTF
Slug: wednesday-wtf-6

Today was probably one of the worst Wednesdays I've had. First, I started the
day off worried about my dad, which I wont go into details about. Let's just
say I didn't sleep too well, however I spoke to him this morning and everything
seems to be okay.

Second, while I was driving to work I heard a pop sound while shifting from
first to second gear and then began to feel intense vibrations in my car which
grew worse as the RPMs increased. Knowing that I have neglected to change my
timing belt on my car I was worried that was the problem and that my engine
would be ruined. However as it still seemed perfectly drivable I figured that
chances of that were much less. I spent a good deal of this morning trying to
figure out what was wrong and determining how much it would cost to fix. As it
turns out it very likely was my balance shaft belt that broke, which is usually
replaced at the same time as a timing belt, thus it means my timing belt is
likely to break soon as well. Parts and labor to change them both will be
approximately $500, which isn't too bad, but I have been pondering upgrading
to a newer car for quite sometime. I learned that I can get approximately $700
for junking my car, thus I think I'm going to try to sell it for slightly more
on craigslist. If I don't get a legitimate offer in a week then I'll probably
fix it.

Finally I was informed that Daniel put one of our dogs, Belle, down this
afternoon as she had been having hip and eating problems. I never was really
attached to Belle, nonetheless she is the first pet I had that lived out a
lifetime. Before now I never really realized how short a dog's lifespan is.

Anyways it really isn't all that bad, as I also made some solid progress today
at work, as well as enjoyed my evening catching up on the TV show Weeds.
Nonetheless wtf kind of coincidence is it that all these things happened today?

Finally to provide a proper Wednesday WTF, I'm stealing one from
[thedailywtf][]:  
[The Dream Customer][] - A lady calls in customer support, for her computer I
presume, because she cannot access the wireless internet. All in all it turns
out she was paying for internet for two years, but had never connected her
modem and was stealing the internet from a neighbor. This just goes to show you
it's not only the tech savvy one must protect their wireless internet from.
It's easy to think "wtf, how can one be so na√Øve?" However I don't really feel
this meets the wtf category as technology can be hard to understand. For this
lady, she turned her laptop on, and simply connected to the internet, but the
process was *too* simple that she didn't realize she had done it improperly.
After all, why fix something that isn't broke?

  [thedailywtf]: http://thedailywtf.com/
  [The Dream Customer]: http://thedailywtf.com/Articles/The-Dream-Customer.aspx
